NFTA Board of Commissioners: 
Henry M. Sloma, Acting Chairman 
Eunice A. Lewin, Treasurer 
Peter G. Demakos, Secretary 
Vincent G. Crehan 
Mark D. Croce 
James J. Eagan 
Carmen A. Granto 
Kevin J. Helfer 
Michael P. Hughes 
Adam W. Perry 
Howard A. Zemsky 

Executive Director: 
Kimberley A. Minkel 


Visit nfta.com and try our Trip Planner. Type in where you are and your destination. The Trip Planner will show just how easy it is to let Metro take you where you want to go. 

nfta.com 
Printed with paper stock that is 100 percent post consumer waste. 
Spring 2011 

THE 



NFTA­Metro Rider News 
SPRING 2011 METRO 
SERVICE CHANGES 

Spring schedules take effect Sunday, March 
20. There are minor time changes to routes throughout the region, each aimed at making Metro more efficient. Please consult your individual route timetables or visit nfta.com for complete and up­to­date information. 


GET NFTA INFO INSTANTLY 
WITH INSTANT UPDATES 

Stay informed about 
Metro routes and serv­
ices by subscribing to 
the NFTA Instant 
Update program: Text 
messages or e­mail from Metro for free. 



The Instant Update program lets you choose exactly what information you want regarding particular NFTA and Metro operations. The program will send route­specific Metro Bus and Rail rider alerts, news, NFTA employment postings as well as other important topics. 
A subscriber to the Instant Update Program has the ability to select a category, or any number of categories, from a list. Messages can be sent to multiple locations such as your home and office computers and cell phones. 
There is no cost to register to receive the 
messages from the NFTA, but wireless 
providers may charge per text message. 




REFURBISHED RAIL CAR ARRIVES 

The first of 27 rail cars to receive a $1.5 million makeover arrived this past February. The $40 million project involves a ground­up restoration for each of Metro’s rail cars, over the next 32 months, resulting in one of the most modern rail fleets in the nation. 
For passengers, the rebuild offers a number of benefits including an updated interior, more responsive heating and air­conditioning, an emergency audio system, brighter overhead lighting, flooring that helps prevent slips and easier­to­see signs inside and out. 
For passengers with disabilities improvements have also been made “under the hood” which will make Metro Rail even more reliable and cost­effective. 
Metro Rail cars have been operating for about 25 years. With this rebuild, the cars should take us all to work, school or a show for another 25. 
new rail cars will have flash­ing lights at all doors, new gong sounds to signal the opening and closing of doors and automatic stop announcements. In addition, an inter­car barrier at both ends of each rail car has been designed to prevent visually impaired passengers from falling into the track bed or walking between cars in the above ground section. 
A number of other mechanical 


TROLLEY SERVICE RETURNS 
Metro Route 55T trolleys return to the streets of Niagara Falls in May, making it even easier to get around the Niagara region. 
Trolley Route 55T serves Niagara Falls Blvd., Pine Ave. and downtown Niagara Falls USA. Guests of participating hotels may ride free with passes from their hotel registration desk, which are available on request. Other riders can simply pay Metro’s standard fare of $1.75. Senior citizens (age 65+), disabled and Medicare cardholders with valid ID pay 75 cents. Exact change is required. For more information, visit nfta.com. 



SOMETHING ON YOUR MIND? 
Metro has a customer survey online at nfta.com/metro. It is a great opportunity to tell us how we are doing. Is Metro Bus and Rail service meeting your needs? Is there an area in which we can do better? The survey only takes a few minutes to complete and all of the questions are designed to help Metro help you. Take a moment to fill it out on­line or call Customer Care to request a survey you can fill out and send back, postage paid. 
Metro Customer Care (716) 855­7211 


Dash's Markets, Tops Markets, Budwey's, Parkside Pharmacy (975 Broadway) and Wilson Farms. Monthly passes also continue to offer added value features, with discounts at restaurants, shops and fun places to go. Check out all of the Metro Xtras savings at nfta.com. 


LASALLE PARK & RIDE 
Only three minutes from University Station, with 700 free parking spots, LaSalle Station Park & Ride is the ideal choice for area commuters or anyone heading downtown for a game or a show. LaSalle is safe, convenient and serves both Metro Rail and Metro Bus Route 8 Main St. 


Pharmacy (975 Broadway). Every SYP also comes 


MAKE EVENTS MORE FUN WITH METRO 
Festivals, ballgames, 
Rail (and two airports, a har­Thursday at the 
bor, a police force . . .) 
Square – Spring in 
Minkel has been with the 
Buffalo Niagara means getting out 
NFTA for the last eight years, 
and about, and Metro can get you 
in charge of safety and 
there. Don’t worry about parking or 
environmental quality. She 
the price of gas. Sit back and let us 
intends to maintain a sharp 
handle the traffic. Metro Bus and Rail 
focus on safety for the passengers, employees and the community Metro serves, with an eye towards making Metro even more environ­mentally friendly. 
A resident of Lancaster, Minkel is the first woman to hold the executive director post, the youngest, and only the tenth in the agency’s history. 
will get you where you need to be faster. Metro runs 20 express routes daily, cover­
ing the region. Visit www.nfta.com for list­ings under Express and MetroLink. Find a route that’s right for you. 



serves downtown Buffalo, downtown Niagara Falls, HSBC Arena, Coca­Cola Field and all the major shows and festivals of the season. Metro keeps an up­to­date list on nfta.com/metro, detailing which bus route best serves each event. Give it a try. 


CELEBRATE EARTH DAY 
Earth Day is Friday, April 22, and once again the NFTA is working with partners across Buffalo Niagara to improve our environment. Local events have been organized by Ecology and Environment, Inc. Companies and organizations throughout the Niagara Frontier are using the day to launch new cleaner, greener initiatives. Sponsors are encouraging employees and members to carpool, bike, walk and most importantly, use public transportation. 


REMEMBER . . . 
Metro began operating to Amherst Station in May, 1985. 




