
NFTA Board of Commissioners: 
Henry M. Sloma, Chairman 
Eunice A. Lewin, Treasurer 
Peter G. Demakos, Secretary 
Vincent G. Crehan 
Mark D. Croce 
James J. Eagan 
Carmen A. Granto 
Kevin J. Helfer 
Michael P. Hughes 
Adam W. Perry 
Howard A. Zemsky 

Executive Director: 
Lawrence M. Meckler 


nfta.com 
Printed with paper stock that is 100 percent post consumer waste. 
Fall 09 
THE 
Reporter 


NFTA-Metro Rider News 

FALL 2009 METRO SERVICE 
CHANGE SUMMARY 


Fall schedules are in effect from September 6 to December 27 and reflect the overall return to full service with the end of vacation season and the opening of schools, universities and col­leges. Minor schedule adjustments have been made to several routes to improve service relia­bility and transfer connections. Please check your route timetable to see if your route or trip has been changed. 

BIG EVENT? 
LET METRO GIVE YOU A LIFT 


Metro bus and rail hits all the big festivals, shows and games in the region.  Of course Metro saves gas, but it also keeps you from having to find a place to park, or worse - paying for it. This fall, let Metro take you where you want to go. 
Labor Day at the Zoo 
Monday, September 7 
Routes: 11 and 32 


National Buffalo Wing Festival 
Saturday, September 5 and Sunday, 
September 6 
Coca-Cola Field 
Routes: 6, 7, 8, 14, 
16, 24, 36, and 
Metro Rail 




Buffalo Place Rocks the Harbor 
Saturday, September 5 Central Wharf at the Erie Canal Harbor Routes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 11, 14, 15, 16, 20, 24, 25, 36, 40, and Metro Rail (with extended service) 



Curtain Up! 
Friday, September 11 Downtown Buffalo, Theater District Routes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 11, 14, 15, 16, 20, 24, 25, 36, 40, and Metro Rail (with extended service) 
Music is Art Festival 
Saturday, September 12 
Albright Knox Art Gallery 
Routes 20 and 32 


World's Largest Disco 
Saturday, November 28 Buffalo Convention Center Routes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 11, 14, 15, 16, 20, 24, 25, 36, 40, and Metro Rail (with extended service) 

Broadway Market Christmas Food Fair 
Friday, November 27 and Saturday, 
November 28 
Routes 4 and 23 




HELP US MAKE METRO EVEN BETTER 
Metro has embarked on a comprehensive study of your transit system's route and fare struc­ture.  The study involves a detailed analysis of Metro's service and the travel patterns and needs of our riders and the community, including where we live, where we work and how we get there. Transit usage has grown in the last few years, making it a great time to carefully and strategical­ly look at how transit service can work best for the community in the future. 


And that is where you come in.  Visit Metro's home page (nfta.com/metro) and click on the Transit Service Restructuring and Fare study button.  You will be taken to a Web page where you can take a quick survey, review study results and reports and offer comments simply and conveniently. 
All of the information collected will be used to improve Metro's current bus and rail system and guide plans for making it even more effective down the road.  The study will continue through the fall, so take a few minutes now and tell us how Metro can make things better for you and the community.  There will be additional oppor­tunities to comment on the draft study results and recommendations in a series of stakeholder meetings in late October and early November. 

GOING TO A SABRES' GAME (OR ANY EVENT) DOWNTOWN? 
Metro Rail offers service to every Sabres' game at HSBC Arena.  In fact, Metro has service to every Arena event, leaving Metro Rail's Event Only Station well after the end, regardless of over-times or encores.  Park free at University at Buffalo or LaSalle Station Park & Rides on Main St. and skip the hassle of driving. 

GAME DAY SERVICE TO RALPH WILSON STADIUM 
Metro runs service to all Buffalo Bills home games at “The Ralph.” Service leaves from seven different locations around Western New York, two hours prior to kickoff. The cost is $6 per person, round-trip. Metro monthly, 30-day, day and weekend passes are valid, in addition to passes purchased through the Metro Advantage program.  Service from: 
Route 90 -Portage Road Transportation Center, Portage and Chilton. Route 91 -City of Tonawanda Transit Center, Main and Niagara Street. Route 92 -Metro Rail University Station, UB South Campus. Route 93 -Metropolitan Transportation Center, North Division and Ellicott Street, Buffalo. Route 94 -Niagara Falls Transportation Center, Factory Outlet Blvd. Route 95 -Thruway Mall Transit Center, Cheektowaga. Route 96 -Clarence Mall, at the northeast corner of Main Street and Transit Road. 


TAKE ADVANTAGE OF METRO ADVANTAGE 

Metro Advantage saves money for both employees and their employers. Easy to implement and easy to use, it is no surprise that Metro Advantage is Metro's fastest growing pass program. 
With Metro Advantage employees can buy monthly Metro Passes - through their employer - using pre­tax dollars. Employees can save approximately 30 percent on their public transportation costs. Employers can reduce their obligations to Federal and State income tax, some unemployment taxes, and FICA. There is no cost to participate, and no added fees or shipping charges.  Metro Advantage is an employee benefit that lowers payroll costs while saving money for each participating employee. There is no minimum number of purchases neces­sary for participation. 
Metro also offers the Metro PAL Advantage pro­gram allowing any employees utilizing paratransit curb-to-curb service this cost-savings benefit. Passes can be purchased as needed through payroll deduction for 10 or 20 trips, valid for all zone or any single zone ticket. Consult our nfta.com/metro website or call (716) 855-7216 (TTY 855-7377) for details. 
Metro Advantage is your advantage.  For more information on how to participate check www.nfta.com/metro or call 
(716) 855-7211, (TDD 855-7650.) 


GET NFTA INFO INSTANTLY WITH INSTANT UPDATES 
Color 
Stay informed about Metro routes and 
Coded 
services by subscribing to the NFTA Lights Instant Update program.  It’s free.  Sign up today to receive e-mail and/or text messages instantly.  
The Instant Update program lets you choose exactly what information you want to receive regarding particular NFTA and Metro operations. The program will send route-specific Metro Bus and Rail rider alerts, airport information ­including the status changes of departing or arriving flights - NFTA Boat Harbor conditions, NFTA employ­ment postings as well as other important topics. 

A subscriber of the Instant Update Program will have the ability to select a category of interest and designate when and for how long they want to be notified. Messages can be sent to multiple locations such as your home and office computers and cell phones. 
There is no cost to register to receive the mes­sages from the NFTA, but wireless providers may charge for each text message that a user receives. 

COLOR CODED ROUTES 
Metro is color-coding five routes that primarily serve Niagara Falls.  The new technique is designed to make it easier for tourists and those unfamiliar with the area, to get around even if English is not their first language. 
For added assistance, corresponding color-coded dots have been affixed to bus stop signs.  Route numbers will still be found on the illuminated exterior displays, on the front and right sides of buses. The color of those lights corresponds with 
a specific route: Route 40/210=red, Route 50=blue, Route 52=yellow, Route 55/55T=green.  Metro’s bus stop signs in Niagara County have a color dot matching the color light in the bus front windshields.  This system does not replace route numbers.  Color cod­ing route supplements are now available along with traditional timetables. 




REMEMBER . . . 
1958, Metro’s predecessor, Niagara Frontier Transit, ran special school buses in the Tonawandas.  Photo from Buffalo’s History Street Cars and Buses, D. David Bregger, Arcadia Publishing. 



