
NFTA Board of Commissioners: 
Henry M. Sloma, Acting Chairman 
Eunice A. Lewin, Treasurer 
Peter G. Demakos, Secretary 
Vincent G. Crehan 
Mark D. Croce 
James J. Eagan 
Carmen A. Granto 
Kevin J. Helfer 
Michael P. Hughes 
Adam W. Perry 
Howard A. Zemsky 

Executive Director: 
Kimberley A. Minkel 


Visit nfta.com and try our Trip Planner. Type in where you are and your destination. The Trip Planner will show just how easy it is to let Metro take you where you want to go. 

nfta.com 
Printed with paper stock that is 100 percent post consumer waste. 
Summer 2011 
THE 



NFTA­Metro Rider News 
SUMMER 2011 METRO 
SERVICE CHANGES 


Summer schedules take effect Sunday, June 
26. There are minor time changes to routes throughout the region, each aimed at making Metro more efficient. Please consult your individual route timetables or visit nfta.com for complete and up­to­date information. 
METRO’S SUMMER YOUTH PASS 

Metro Bus or Metro Rail as much as you want from June 24 to September 8. The SYP is only $52.50 and available at participating Tops, Wilson Farms, Budwey’s, Parkside Pharmacy and Dash’s Markets. It’s for people 17 and under only. Every SYP also comes with so many discounts at area restaurants, shops and attractions the pass almost pays for itself. On sale now. 

METRO MADE GREEN 
Did you know every full Metro bus means 40 fewer cars on the road? Did you know Metro Rail puts out zero emissions, because it runs public. They mingle unnoticed in the rail sys­tem, giving troublemakers a false sense of secu­rity. Removing those elements has the opposite effect. It’s giving Metro Rail riders a genuine 

With the help of Niagara International Transportation Technology Coalition the same 
group that monitors motorways around the region Metro has been able to access more transportation information. NITTEC also assists in sending 


out updates around the clock. The Instant Update program lets people choose the information NFTA and Metro operations they want. The program sends route­specific Metro Bus and Rail rider alerts, news, NFTA employment postings as well as other important topics. Subscribers have the ability to select a category of interest. Messages can be sent to multiple locations 
such as your home or office computers and cell phones. There is no cost to register to receive the 
messages from the NFTA, but wireless providers may charge per text message. If you haven’t signed up, visit nfta.com and register today. 

GOING SOMEWHERE? 

The best way to enjoy Buffalo Niagara? Skip the driving and parking. Let Metro take you where you want to go. Like . . . 
Concerts at the Erie Canal Harbor Central Wharf ­Every Thursday from now through August 4. 
Downtown Country Market (Main St. between Court and Church Streets) ­

Every Tuesday and Thursday now through October. 
Shakespeare in the Park (Delaware Park, near the Rose Garden. Shows run Tuesday­Sunday at 7:30 p.m.): 
“The Merchant of Venice” now ­July 10 

“As You Like It” July 21 ­August 14 Gus Macker ­June 25­26 Taste of Buffalo (Delaware Ave. and Niagara 
Square) ­July 9­10 Italian Festival (Hertel Ave.) ­July 14­17 Erie County Fair (Hamburg Fair Grounds) ­
August 10­21 Elmwood Festival of Arts (Elmwood Ave. from Lafayette Ave. to West Ferry St.) ­August 27­28 

National Buffalo Chicken Wing Festival 

(Coca Cola Field) ­September 3­4 Visit nfta.com/metro, detailing which bus route best serves each event. Give it a try. 


GET THERE FASTER WITH METRO’S EXPRESS SERVICES 

Express bus and MetroLink Express services offer the same safe, convenient, economical transportation you’ll find on all Metro routes. The only difference is the time it takes. Express services make fewer stops so they will get you where you need to be faster. Metro runs 19 express routes daily, covering the region. Visit www.nfta.com for listings under Express and MetroLink. Find a route that’s right for you. 
ERIE COUNTY FAIR 


This year’s Fair runs from August 10 through 21 at the Hamburg Fair Grounds. With new acts, returning favorites and some of the best in local entertainment, you won’t want to miss a thing. And it doesn’t stop there. Motor events parades, food, midway attractions, games and shows make it fun for everyone in Western New York. 
The Erie County Fair is served by Metro Bus routes 14, 36 and 216, with extra trips and extended hours. See nfta.com for details. 

TROLLEY BUSES ARE BACK 

Metro is once again providing complimentary trolley service for guests staying at participating Niagara Falls motels and hotels. The 55T Niagara Falls Blvd./Pine Avenue trolley bus travels between and downtown Niagara Falls, serving Niagara Falls Boulevard and Pine Avenue, operating weekends May 13 ­31 and Nov. 24 ­Dec. 31, and seven days a week from June 1 ­Oct. 31. The service runs from 9 a.m. until midnight and on all holidays during these service periods. 
There are two new trolley buses in the fleet this year. They are larger, so we’ll be able to better serve our passengers at peak times throughout the year. 
Trolley Day Passes are available from participating hotels and motels. Individuals without a trolley day pass may ride the service by paying Metro's regular adult fare of $4 for a day pass or $1.75, 75 cents for children (5­11 yrs.), seniors (65 yrs. and over), disabled and Medicare clients with valid I.D for a single ride. All other Metro passes are also valid. Children four and under ride free, limit three children per fare paying adult. 

METRO’S NEW BOSS 
Thomas George is the new director of surface transportation, as of this past April. A licensed engineer, Tom has been involved in transportation issues around this region for the last decade. 


REMEMBER . . . 
Main St. in front of the Palace Burlesk (yes, that’s how they spelled it), circa 1949 




