Spring 2009 Metro Service ChangesService changes take effect Sunday, March 22.  There are numerous changes this spring, to routes throughout the region.  Please consult your individual route timetables or visit nfta.com for complete and up-to-date information. Trolley service returns  [graphic: trolley]Metro Route 55T trolleys return to the streets of Niagara Falls in May, making it even easier to get around the Niagara region.Trolley Route 55T serves Niagara Falls Blvd., Pine Ave. and downtown Niagara Falls USA. Guests of participating hotels may ride free with passes from their hotel registration desk, which are available on request.  Other riders can simply pay Metro's standard fare of $1.75. Senior citizens (age 65+), disabled and Medicare cardholders with valid ID pay .75 cents.  Exact change is required.  For more information, visit nfta.com.Metro's Summer Youth Pass  [graphic: pass]Metro's Summer Youth Pass lets you ride Metro Bus or Metro Rail as much as you want (except Darien Lake service) from June 26 to September 9 2009. The SYP is only $52.50 and available at participating Tops, Wilson Farms, Budwey's, and Dash's Markets.  It's for people 17 and under only.  Every SYP also comes with so many discounts at area restaurants, shops and attractions the pass almost pays for itself.  On sale this June.LaSalle Park & RideOnly three minutes from University Station, with 700 free parking spots, LaSalle Station Park & Ride is the ideal choice for area commuters or anyone heading downtown for a game or a show.  LaSalle is safe, convenient and serves both Metro Rail and Metro Bus Route 8 Main St.Metro Advantage ExpandsMetro Advantage is a flexible benefit for both employers and employees.  Through the Metro Advantage Program, employers are able to offer their employees the benefit of purchasing Metro Passes utilizing pre-tax dollars.  Metro has extended the program to include Metro Paratransit Access Line passes.Metro AdvantageThe Metro Advantage Program offers benefits that are vast and include tax savings, reduced automobile expenses, reduced parking burdens and parking costs, as well as reliable transportation to and from work.  With a Metro Advantage monthly pass, participants can also use the special offers, as they appear on the front of their Metro pass, as often as they would like. Metro Advantage Passes are valid for the full calendar month for which they are issued.  All Zone Passes can be used on an unlimited basis in Erie & Niagara Counties for the bus or rail.  Single Zone Passes can be used within the zone for which they are purchased on an unlimited basis.  Both types of passes are valid Monday-Sunday, for work, shopping, entertainment, etc.  The more an individual uses his/her pass, the more cost effective it becomes. Let Metro Advantage work for you.Metro PAL AdvantageMetro PAL Advantage allows PAL clients* to purchase a fixed number of rides, known as PAL passes, through their employer using pre-tax dollars.  Clients who utilize Metro PAL Advantage will save approximately 30 percent. PAL Passes are valid in Erie and Niagara Counties. Metro PAL Advantage is convenient, cost effective and there is no fee to participate.       PAL provides curb-to-curb transportation for individuals with a permanent or temporary disability that prevents them from using Metro's fully accessible fixed route bus or rail service.  PAL eligibility is determined based on the guidelines contained in the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.PAL provides the same level of service as our fixed route service. This means that PAL operates whenever Metro Bus & Rail provides service in your area.  For more information visit nfta.com/metro/advantage.asp* Individuals must meet eligibility requirements to utilize PAL.Make events more fun with MetroFestivals, ball games, Thursday in the Square - Spring in Buffalo Niagara means getting outside.  Metro means getting you to the fun.  Don't worry about parking or the price of gas.  Sit back and let us handle the traffic.  Metro Bus and Rail serves downtown Buffalo, downtown Niagara Falls, HSBC Arena, Coca-Cola Field and all the major shows and festivals of the season.  Details are on nfta.com.  Let Metro take you where you want to go.New Park & Rides now openMetro has added three new Park & Rides to the 17 already open and serving commuters across the region.  All allocated parking spaces are free.  In lots not exclusive to Metro riders, please look for signs designating Park & Ride spaces.Erie Community College South,	4041 Southwestern Blvd., serving routes 14 (B, C) 42, and 72 (A, B, C, D)McKinley Mall, 3701 McKinley Parkway, serving routes 14 B, 36 (B, M), 42 and 216Village of North Collins, Route 62 North Collins, serving route 216To learn more about other Park & Rides, schedules, trip planning, fares or additional Metro information visit nfta.com/metro.Get there faster with Metro's express servicesExpress bus and Metrolink Express services offer the same safe, convenient, economical transportation you'll find on all Metro routes.  The only difference is speed.  Express services make fewer stops so they will get you where you need to be faster.  Metro runs 20 express routes daily, covering the region.  Visit www.nfta.com for listings under Express and Metrolink.  You'll find a route that's right for you.Celebrate Earth DayEarth Day is Wednesday, April 22, and once again the NFTA is working with partners across Buffalo Niagara to improve our environment.  Local events have been organized by Ecology and Environment, Inc.  Companies and organizations throughout the Niagara Frontier are using the day to launch new cleaner, greener initiatives.  Sponsors are encouraging employees and members to carpool, bike, walk and most importantly, use public transportation.Green stayMetro has partnered with the Buffalo Niagara Convention & Visitors Bureau as part of their Green Hospitality Initiative.  The CVB is reviewing environmental practices of hotels, motels and entertainment services, with an eye on sustainability.  The CVB believes waste management, energy savings, food production, disposal, use of safer cleaning products and of course, taking public transportation, can make a huge impact on the health of the community.  It also shows visitors from outside the community that we take the welfare of our environment seriously.National Solar ConferenceThe National Solar Conference comes to Buffalo, May 11 through 16, at the Buffalo Convention Center.  Now in its 38th year, this is America's most significant conference on emerging energy trends and technology.  The chance to host is an honor to the whole region.  For most of the conference industry leaders, inventors and entrepreneurs meet, exchange ideas and look for ways to move the nation into sustainable energy solutions.  However, everyone is invited to an open event Saturday, May 16.  Admission will be $5 per person, people 18 and under are free (accompanied by an adult.)  The public event will include presentations and interactive educational activities.  Visit ases.org for more information.Remember . . .Doubledecker buses?  While more famous in London, the IRC (forerunner to Metro) ran several in Buffalo from 1924 to 1936.  Many, like this IBC, were gas-electric hybrids.CarefulTry not to use your cell phone while getting on or off the bus.Spring 09