Metro Reporter – September 2008

Fall 2008 Metro Service Change summary

Fall schedules are in effect from August 31 to December 27 and reflect the end of vacation season, the opening of schools, universities and colleges, and the overall return to full service.  In response to increasing ridership and demand for Metro service, we have strategically added or extended service as described below.  Also, minor adjustments to several routes have been made to improve reliability and transfer connections.  Please check your route timetable to see if your route or timetable has been changed.

Metro Rail – an extra round trip has been added in the early morning.  The first train leaving Erie Canal Harbor Station is at 5:10 a.m. and the first train leaving University Station is at 5:36 a.m.
Route 5 Niagara – several trips have been added to accommodate increased ridership.
Route 11 Colvin - some Saturday and Sunday trips have been extended to the Tonawanda Industrial Park to provide better service for workers, shoppers and residents.
Route 24 Genesee – “P” trips will divert a short distance off Transit Road at Freeman to get riders closer to the Trocaire College School of hospitality and several motels.
Route 34 Niagara Falls Blvd. – three Sunday trips are extended to Audubon to serve the retail and residential area north of Maple Road.
Route 48 Williamsville – Saturday and Sunday trips have been added for employees of several health care facilities.
Route 60 Niagara Falls – the 4:40 p.m. outbound trip has been changed to an “A” trip and will now serve the park-and ride lot at the Niagara Falls Transportation Center.
Route 64 Lockport – a new trip has been added in the afternoon, leaving downtown at 5:10 p.m.
Route 210 Airport-Niagara Falls Express – this service will continue through the fall based on continuing ridership growth.
Route 216 Gowanda – service has been extended in Gowanda from the Tri-County Hospital to the Gowanda Rehabilitation and Nursing Center.


Metro Monthly Passes available through the 15th of the month
Metro passes are sold at all participating locations  - and from ticket vending machines - from the 24th of the month preceding the month in which passes are valid, through the 15th of the month in which they are valid.  For example, October passes will sell from September 24th through October  15th.

Metro monthly passes are available at participating Tops, Wilson Farms, Budwey’s (Kenmore Ave.), Dash Markets, Parkside Pharmacy and from vending machines in the Metropolitan Transportation Center (the bus station, downtown Buffalo.)


Buffalo Airport to Niagara Falls Express
Metro has decided to continue offering Route 210 Express indefinitely.  Route 210 sends MetroLink vans direct from the Buffalo Niagara International Airport to downtown Niagara Falls in about 50 minutes.  This route serves the Niagara Falls Transportation Center (Factory Outlet Blvd.), downtown Niagara Falls and Portage Road Transit Center, operating seven days a week.

Ridership has been exceeding expectations.  Originally scheduled to cease in August, with the end of the tourist season, the service now has no expiration date.  Route 210 has turned out to be as popular with Niagara County residents as it has been with visitors. Full one-way fare is $2.00.  Exact change is required.

Dash Board Award
Every year Metro gives an award to the bus garage that shows the most improvement in the areas that mean the most to our riders.  There are three bus garages, and one rail yard, in the running.  This year’s award went to Cold Spring Garage on Michigan St.

Cold Spring achieved a 30 percent improvement in on-time performance and a nine percent improvement in maintenance.  They also received 60 percent more commendations for the year and eight percent fewer complaints, which is excellent considering the nearly 11 percent increase in ridership Metro has seen over the same period.  In short, Metro – especially the Cold Spring Garage – is doing better with more passengers.  

Hybrids live up to the hype
After two years on the street, Metro is now able to make a fair analysis of its diesel-electric hybrid buses. Metro hybrid buses have turned out to be 30 percent more efficient than traditional diesel buses.  They are even more efficient compared with the older buses they replace.  Buses taken out of service average 2.9 miles per gallon.  Hybrids are averaging 5.6 mpg.  The savings to Metro has been substantial, and one of the reasons fares have remained low and service level high.

Hybrids also have special brakes that act as generators, sending electric power back to the batteries.  While conserving power is a big benefit all in itself, regenerative brakes are consistently lasting four times longer than brakes on traditional buses.

Recycling Needed
The City of Buffalo is rolling out “Recycling Needed!”. Directed at residents and small business in the city, the outreach program will try to instill how important recycling is for the city and the planet.  Buffalo faces escalading landfill costs while the planet faces shortages in natural resources. To solve both problems at once: Recycling Needed!

While many cities have better recycling rates than Buffalo, Buffalo’s recycling matches cities with similar home-ownership rates, like Philadelphia or Cleveland.  The Mayor of Buffalo, Byron Brown and Public Work’s Commissioner Steve Stepniak, know we can do better. 

The City, with direct assistance from the County of Erie Department of Environment and Planning, and a grant from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, is putting forth a multi-faceted campaign, including radio spots, billboards, direct mail, and advertising on the Metro system.

The NFTA is happy to join the City of Buffalo and Erie County to help reduce taxes and create a healthy environment for everyone. For more information visit www.buffalorecycles.com.


Hunger Action Month
September is Hunger Action Month.  Created by America’s Second Harvest, the nation’s food bank network, the initiative compels Western New Yorkers to take action now against the problem of hunger in our community.

The Food Bank is reaching out to area employers asking them to host a brown bag day or a casual Friday with proceeds going to the Food Bank.  For the brown bag day they are encouraging employees to bring their lunch to work instead of ordering out and make a monetary donation from the money they save.  For a casual Friday, employees dress down for a set amount of money pre-determined by the company.

The Food Bank of Western New York distributes food to feed nearly 100,000 individuals every month through its approximately 400 member agencies.  This year there has been an alarming increase in the request for food from agencies served by the Food Bank.  It is on target to distribute more than 12 million pounds of food this year.

For more information visit www.foodbankwny.org.
Take advantage of Metro Advantage
Metro Advantage saves money for both employees and their employers.  Easy to implement and easy to use, it is no surprise that Metro Advantage is Metro’s fastest growing pass program.
With Metro Advantage employees buy monthly Metro Passes  - through their employer – using pre-taxed dollars.  Employees can save approximately 30 percent on their public transportation costs.  Employers can reduce their obligations to Federal and State income tax, some unemployment taxes, and FICA.  There is no cost to participate, and no added fees or shipping charges.  Metro Advantage is an employee benefit that lowers payroll costs while saving money for each participating employee.  
Metro will help put a program together and help maintain it going forward. There is no minimum number necessary for participation. 
Metro Advantage is your advantage.  For more information on how to participate check www.NFTA.com or call (716)855-7211, (TDD 855-7650.)

Coupon

Bijou ad (pick up)

Remember . . .
The corner of Delaware and Delavan was a big transfer point back in 1948.

