Spring 2010 Metro Service Changes
Spring schedules take effect Sunday, March 21.  There are minor time changes to routes throughout the region, each aimed at making Metro more efficient.  Please consult your individual route timetables or visit nfta.com for complete and up-to-date information. 

We were wondering . . .  [graphic: ?]
Metro has posted a customer survey online at nfta.com.  It is a great opportunity to tell us how we are doing.  Is Metro Bus and Rail service meeting your needs?  Is there an area in which we can do better?  The survey only takes a few minutes to complete and all of the questions are designed to help Metro help you.  Take a moment to fill it out on line or call Customer Care to request a survey you can fill out and send back, postage paid.

Metro Customer Care (716)855-7211 TTY 711 or 800-662-1220

More hybrid buses hit the streets  (hybrid bus)
Metro welcomes 11 new diesel-electric hybrid buses into the fleet this month, bringing the total to 54.  Metro has been using hybrid buses for four years, in which time they have proven themselves up to the challenges of Buffalo Niagara.  They have been reliable in the dead of winter and height of summer.  Hybrids use 30 percent less fuel than the diesel buses they replace.  That results not only in savings, but far less pollution in the air.  They are even quieter than regular diesels.  

Transit is already one of the most fuel-efficient methods of commuting.  Hybrid buses make public transportation even friendlier to the environment.  Which means these new buses are not just great news for Metro riders, but great for the whole community.  Using less fossil fuel, and putting fewer particles in the air, is good for everyone.

New passes  (graphic: new pass or passes)
Have you seen the new Metro Monthly passes?  Every month the re-designed passes feature a new bus or rail illustration.  Collect all 12!  Monthly Passes remain Metro’s best value, offering unlimited rides during the month issued.  Passes are available from the 24th of the month, to the 15th of the following month, at participating Dash's Markets, Tops Markets, Budwey's and Wilson Farms.  
Monthly passes also continue to offer added value features, with discounts at restaurants, shops and fun places to go. Check out all of the Metro Xtras savings at nfta.com.  


Trolley service returns  [graphic: trolley]
Metro Route 55T trolleys return to the streets of Niagara Falls in May, making it even easier to get around the Niagara region.

Trolley Route 55T serves Niagara Falls Blvd., Pine Ave. and downtown Niagara Falls USA. Guests of participating hotels may ride free with passes from their hotel registration desk, which are available on request.  Other riders can simply pay Metro’s standard fare of $1.75. Senior citizens (age 65+), disabled and Medicare cardholders with valid ID pay 75 cents.  Exact change is required.  For more information, visit nfta.com.

Metro’s Summer Youth Pass  [graphic: pass]
Metro's Summer Youth Pass lets you ride Metro Bus or Metro Rail as much as you want (except Darien Lake service) from June 25 to September 8 2010. The SYP is only $52.50 and available at participating Tops, Wilson Farms, Budwey’s, and Dash’s Markets.  It’s for people 17 and under only.  Every SYP also comes with so many discounts at area restaurants, shops and attractions the pass almost pays for itself.  On sale starting this June.


LaSalle Park & Ride
Only three minutes from University Station, with 700 free parking spots, LaSalle Station Park & Ride is the ideal choice for area commuters or anyone heading downtown for a game or a show.  LaSalle is safe, convenient and serves both Metro Rail and Metro Bus Route 8 Main St.


A Snapshot of America [graphic: hands poster]
Have you received your 2010 Census questionnaire in the U.S. mail?Filling out the questionnaire and mailing it back to the bureau is important.  The questionnaire asks only a few general questions of each person . . . name, relationship, gender, age, date of birth, race and whether the respondent owns or rents their home.  This simple, short questionnaire only takes a few minutes to complete and return by mail, postage-paid.Taken every 10 years, the census affects political representation and directs billions of dollars in government funding.  Every year, more than $300 billion in federal funds is awarded to states and communities for critical community services based on census data.  In short, the success of the program is In Your Hands, so please fill it out and mail it in.  Everyone Counts!


Get there faster with Metro’s express services
Express bus and MetroLink Express services offer the same safe, convenient, economical transportation you’ll find on all Metro routes.  The only difference is speed.  Express services make fewer stops so they will get you where you need to be faster.  Metro runs 20 express routes daily, covering the region.  Visit www.nfta.com for listings under Express and MetroLink.  Find a route that’s right for you.


Make events more fun with Metro [graphic: HSBC? Other?]
Festivals, ballgames, Thursday at the Square – Spring in Buffalo Niagara means getting outside.  Metro means getting you to the fun.  Don’t worry about parking or the price of gas.  Sit back and let us handle the traffic.  Metro Bus and Rail serves downtown Buffalo, downtown Niagara Falls, HSBC Arena, Coca-Cola Field and all the major shows and festivals of the season.  Details are on nfta.com.  Let Metro take you where you want to go.

Celebrate Earth Day
Earth Day is Thursday, April 22, and once again the NFTA is working with partners across Buffalo Niagara to improve our environment.  Local events have been organized by Ecology and Environment, Inc.  Companies and organizations throughout the Niagara Frontier are using the day to launch new cleaner, greener initiatives.  Sponsors are encouraging employees and members to carpool, bike, walk and most importantly, use public transportation.


Remember . . .
In the summer of 1984 the public got its first look at Metro’s new rail cars.  Here they are being readied at the DL&W, Metro Rail’s new home.

Please
{bus cards }


Spring 10
