Fall 2011 Metro Service Changes (1100 words)
Summer schedules take effect Sunday, September 4.  There are minor time changes to routes throughout the region, each aimed at making Metro more efficient.  Please consult your individual route timetables or visit nfta.com for complete and up-to-date information. 


School’s in session
Just a reminder – classes start, at some schools, right now.  Most resume the second week of September.  Metro Bus and Rail serves students across Buffalo, utilizing regular Routes.  In addition, Metro operates many special routes designed around school hours.  By taking care of students, they will help makes sure Metro remains your best choice for getting around the region.


Take the trolley through Christmas
Metro has extended service for the Route 55T trolley bus.  It will now run through the end of the year, making it available to visitors (and residents, of course) through the holiday season.  The 55T serves downtown Niagara Falls, stopping at hotels, restaurants and popular attractions.

Trolley Day Passes are available at participating hotel registration desks.  They are free for many hotel guests. The service is open to everyone.  Standard fares apply.  Schedules and routing is available at nfta.com/metro.

A new Holiday Market
Metro’s 55T trolley bus is a great way to visit this year’s first ever Niagara Holiday Market.  Old Falls Street will host the event for 36 days, in the heart of Niagara Falls.  Santa’s Workshop, skating, wine tasting, and more will commence with a tree-lighting ceremony right after Thanksgiving.  The market will also be served by Metro Bus Routes 40, 55 and 60.


Night time is the right time for Route 20E
From Canisius to Medaille to Buffalo State to downtown and back again, the 20E Late Night Express runs from 10:00 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. Thursday and Saturday nights, while school is in session.  If your college or university participates in the Unlimited Access Program, all you need is your school ID.  It’s only $1.75 otherwise. (Does not run during Thanksgiving Weekend, Christmas and Spring Breaks.)  

If you’re heading out to Elmwood Ave., Chippewa St. Allen St. – leave the driving to us. Visit nfta.com/metro for more information.


LaSalle Park & Ride
Only three minutes from University Station, with over 700 free parking spots, LaSalle Station Park & Ride is the ideal choice for area commuters or anyone heading downtown for a game or a show.  LaSalle is safe, convenient and serves both Metro Rail and Metro Bus Route 8 Main St.


Get there faster with Metro’s express services
Express bus and MetroLink Express services offer the same safe, convenient, economical transportation you’ll find on all Metro routes.  The only difference is the time it takes.  Express services make fewer stops so they will get you where you need to be faster.  Metro runs 20 express routes daily, covering the region.  Visit www.nfta.com for listings under Express and MetroLink.  Find a route that’s right for you.


Your chance for the first ride
Metro Rail is getting ready to put its newly recycled rail cars into service.  You can be on the very first trip.  New interiors, new lighting, a host of new safety features and more, we’ve made $1.5 million worth of improvements.  You can be among the first to try them out.  The inaugural passengers will also receive a pack of other Metro goodies.  

The event is scheduled for October 26.  The date maybe moved later.  Sign up for your chance today, with the form attached, by picking one up at the Metropolitan Transportation Center (the Bus Station) in downtown Buffalo or entering online at nfta.com/metro.  Ten winners can bring up to 10 friends.  The ride will originate at University Station, travel to Theatre Station and then return.


Entry Form


{Don’t cross in front of the bus card}

{Cell Phone card}

Remember . . .
(still working on this one) 


FAll 11
